[MUSIC PLAYING]
>>ANNOUNCER: And now,
world-renowned spirit medium,
James Van Praagh.
>>JAMES VAN PRAAGH: Hi everyone.
Hi everyone.
Hi.
Thank you.
Thank you very much.
And thank you at home
also for watching,
where I take you one
step closer to heaven.
Hopefully today we'll
see what happens
as we connect to
the spirit world.
And today we're going to talk
about something which I just
wrote a book about.
And my book is right here.
It's called "Adventures
of the Soul."
Yes.
And I wrote this
book because I found
a friend of mine named Debbie
Ford, who is a life coach,
and talked about
spiritual matters.
She passed away two years ago.
And I helped her pass.
And I remember very distinctly
that Debbie didn't really
know how to pass.
She was kind of stuck
in between the material
world with her thoughts, and
she couldn't release her soul.
And she asked me to come
to her in meditation.
And I did.
I helped her in a meditation.
And I said to her, Debbie,
why won't you pass over?
And she said in my
thoughts and my meditation,
I had a kid, James.
I have an eight-year-old kid.
What am I supposed to do?
And I said, Debbie, it's OK.
Your mother is here.
You have family members
to take care of the child.
It'll be OK.
Just ease into it.
There are those
on the other side
of the light-- in
the veil, if you
will-- reaching to get to you.
And I was able to tell
her who the people were
on the other side of
the veil waiting for her
and waiting to receive her--
because every single one of us
is met by somebody.
No one ever dies alone, ever.
OK?
So I went through this
thing with Debbie.
And she said, gee, James, it's
as if I've been given keys
to a car and I don't
know how to drive.
So I thought, that's
really, really interesting
she would say that.
And then she went on to
say, I spent my whole life
learning how to live.
And now I have to
learn how to die.
So don't you think that's
really interesting?
That someone who worked in
this field for so, so long
would have that
awareness-- or not
awareness-- I should say that
perspective that she was just
connected with
that physical body.
I assisted Debbie in telling
her listen, you are a soul.
And a soul has been
here many, many times.
A soul has been here through
eons and eons of lifetimes.
And we come in and we go.
And I really do believe that
our souls come upon this earth
to learn many lessons.
This is our
schoolroom down here.
This is where a soul comes
back to learn spiritual lessons
in order for it to expand and
to grow and to really evolve,
if you will.
Evolve in your soul being-ness.
And I really felt I had to write
that book because, if Debbie
was somebody who
worked in the field--
she was a light worker-- and she
didn't really know how to pass
on and what it was all
about, what death was about,
I thought, wow, what about
the average person who didn't
really know about the
soul, how to pass,
how to die correctly,
and so forth?
The right ways of going about
things, what to expect next.
So I wrote that book,
"Adventures of the Soul."
So today I'd like to share
with you bits of that book
and really talk about
the soul and the lessons
that the soul comes
back to learn, OK?
As souls, before we come
back onto this earth school,
we tend to meet with our
counselors, our guides,
our angels, our
teachers, whatever
label you'd like to put that in.
And the in-between worlds
between the heaven world,
if you want to talk to
that, or the earth world,
the in-between
world is where you
will meet these
teachers and guides.
And that's a very
active vibration.
It's a very active world.
You go to school
there to learn things,
to expand your
knowledge of things,
to prepare for your next
incarnation, if you will.
You also will meet
your loved ones.
And you will connect
with them, and finish
certain relationships
that you had with them
that you might have
started down here.
And it seems that we should
look at things very differently.
When we talk to our
guides our and teachers,
we prepare for our
next incarnation.
So as we study with
our loved ones,
we study with our teachers
and our guides and our angels,
we do set up a
blueprint for our soul.
And we tend to set
up a blueprint,
but not only for our soul, but
for our soul group or our soul
family.
You've all heard of
soul mates, right?
A sould mate.
People think you
have one soul mate.
James, who is my soul mate?
And I try to tell the person
it's not one soul mate;
it's soul mates.
It's those souls who you have
experienced many lifetimes
with, many experiences
with, that you
have a kind of affinity toward.
You could think of it this way--
that a soul mate is somebody
who you've been to
through many classes with.
You studied many of
the same subjects.
You've been around
the same times,
you know the same people.
You've had a lot of
the same experiences.
And that's why, when
you meet somebody,
and you have a certain
affinity with them--
So, it's somebody you have
that affinity with that you've
learned with.
I got to tell you this also.
It's really interesting.
That when we come
back as a soul, we do
tend to come back not
only with our soul mates,
but we tend to come
back at the most
opportune time for
our soul's growth.
So we also tend to go back in
soul families or soul groups.
So in one lifetime, you
could have been the father.
Another time, the mother.
The child.
The grandparent.
And you might have passed over
when you were 30 years of age.
You might have left as a child.
You might have died of old age.
I do believe that, and maybe the
analogy is a pretty good one,
where we could look at the
world, this earth, as a stage,
like Shakespeare said.
A stage.
And we do take on
different roles.
We take on different roles as a
mother, the father, the child,
the friend in order to
optimize our souls' growth
and in order to have a
scenario present that we really
can grow from each other as
well-- not only ourselves,
but grow with each other
by sharing that scenario.
And kind of going within to our
natural intuition, the soul's
language.
The soul's language
is intuition,
meaning into the soul.
And all different scenarios
and choices you make in life
really are easier if you
use your soul's language
of intuition.
You'll get through your
lessons so much easier.
So it's interesting to know
that we're not just growing
by ourselves, our
own soul's growth,
but you-- we also are
growing with a soul family.
So what affects you also affects
everybody else in your soul
family or your soul group.
And you kind of know that.
I do believe that
we're all connected.
I do believe that we're all one.
That there's a big illusion,
this three-dimensional world,
that we're separate
from one another,
when in reality we are one.
We are one energy.
And we pass out of
this physical school.
We go graduate.
Our souls graduate to
our real place of origin.
We begin to have the
awareness right away, wow,
we're all connected.
We're all connected.
And what I did in
my life affected
that person, and that
person, and that person,
and that person.
Wow.
And since we're all
connected, I really
am responsible for how
another person felt.
Just so you know that.
It's very important you know
that because, immediately, it
can set up a sense
of mindfulness.
A sense of
responsibility with what
you think about another person,
what you say to another person.
Does that make sense so far?
>>AUDIENCE: Yes.
>>VAN PRAAGH: You're quick.
You got it at home?
Good.
OK.
Very good.
So we tend to come
back in soul groups.
So lesson, just repeat this.
Soul families.
We will all pick the optimum
time for all of our growth,
not only individual,
but together.
And sometimes you can come
back to the third generation
of that same family.
You tend to come back
to the same family
line, the same heredity line.
And you evolve
that line as well.
So that's really interesting.
The quickest way
a soul can grow is
through using the
energy of love.
Love is this natural energy.
Love is the soul's
natural energy.
And in order for you to grow
on this earth, this schoolroom,
it wouldn't be easy for you
to grow if you have people
in your life who were always
so nice to you, and happy,
and sweet, and did
everything you want,
and everything was OK.
There'd be no growth.
There'd be no conflict.
So you wouldn't be forced
to look at something very
differently, would you?
Right?
So the biggest teachers,
the best teachers
and the biggest teachers that we
have in this schoolroom, earth,
are the ones who
treat us the worst.
You're crazy.
Yes, I am.
But it's very-- when
you think about it,
and we think of the concept
that we are all one,
and there's a connection
of oneness with all of us.
So if somebody hurts me,
and I stay in judgment,
what am I doing?
I'm not helping them.
If I can't forgive them,
I can't forgive myself.
They are teaching me a lesson.
What lesson?
Let's say they're teaching
me a lesson of patience.
I'm impatient.
I think, oh, go to heck.
Oh, to heck with
you or something.
Whatever.
What is it that that
person's showing you,
that they're bringing to
the surface to show you?
That's something about
yourself that's not forgiven.
Something about yourself that
has not been brought back
into wholeness-- because
if we're all are all one,
there's something being
present to show you that's
not being brought into balance.
So really, those people in your
life that are the hardest ones
to get along with, the
adversarial ones, they
are your greatest teachers.
And if you can forgive
them, you forgive yourself.
You forgive yourself,
you forgive them.
We're all connected to it.
I always say treat
another person
as you would want to be treated.
Use the golden rule.
Best way to live.
Any questions before
we move on about souls
or what I talked about?
Yes.
Would you like to
stand up, please?
>>AUDIENCE: Yeah, sure.
So when you're talking
about soul families,
does this-- so you're talking
about hereditary stuff, too.
Does it go along with
maybe your significant--
your life partner or partners.
>>VAN PRAAGH: Of course.
>>AUDIENCE: So would you
congregate with a life partner
as well?
>>VAN PRAAGH: Of course.
>>AUDIENCE: So it's not
just a bloodline thing?
>>VAN PRAAGH: It's not
just a bloodline thing.
It's a thing-- who's in
your soul atmosphere, who's
connected with you
in this lifetime that
is significant to you.
So in another
lifetime, and you could
have been the mother
to that person.
We play different roles.
Of those people in
our lives right now
who are the most
intimate with us,
whether family,
friends, partners,
we have shared
different roles with
and learn different things from.
And we also go into
what's called karma.
You know karma, the law
of cause and effect.
The natural law of
cause and effect.
What you give out, you get back.
And really we have to understand
that every single person
creates with their
thoughts and creates
with their mind, what they
say to people, the words.
And you have to live out
what you've sent out.
So in another
lifetime, you might
have said something to somebody.
And now in this
lifetime, you have
to live what you sent out
in the previous lifetime.
>>AUDIENCE: Like
being accountable
for your-- everything.
>>VAN PRAAGH: You got to be
accountable for everything.
You have to be accountable
for everything.
And just that alone can
help you to live good life--
because if you
realize that you're
responsible for every
thought, word, and deed,
and then when you pass
to the side of life,
you got to look
back at your life
and see all the good, the
bad, and the indifferent,
you're going to force you
to say, wait a minute.
From now on, as James
Van Praagh told me this,
I'm going to start being mindful
about my words and my thoughts
because they'll come back to me.
OK?
Good.
>>AUDIENCE: Thanks
>>VAN PRAAGH: Well,
I thought we would do
is a little-- a quick little
mind journey with you.
Is that OK?
A quick little mind journey.
And what I want to
do is there is a way
to find out what soul lessons
that are the most prevalent
in your life.
And I'm going to
help you with that.
Yes?
>>AUDIENCE: Yes.
>>VAN PRAAGH: Yay.
And what I want you
to do is I'm just
going to have you
just close your eyes.
If you never meditated
before, that's fine.
You're just going to
listen to my voice.
And we might have some
music behind my voice.
Now look at that.
Magic.
And those people at home,
just relax, close your eyes.
And you, too, can just listen
to my voice and the music.
And just bring your mind
to a place of neutrality.
Bring your mind to a
place of just being.
Just being.
We all have thoughts, but
we just see them as thoughts
and not give them any
more emotion or judgment.
Just be mindful that things
might pop into your head
while you're sitting
here, and that's fine.
Just don't give any power.
We're just going to observe.
Just going to observe.
So now, as we hear
the sound of my voice,
I just want you to
be mindful of how
your body feels
sitting in the chairs.
Be mindful of your
feet on the floor.
Be mindful of your legs and
your backs, your shoulders,
your arms, your
hands, your head.
Be mindful, please, and bring
your attention to your heart.
The heart, the center
of your being-ness.
The heart is where
the soul resides.
And that beautiful
soul, you can imagine
it is sparkling
green, sparkling gold.
It is like a
kaleidoscope of color
that brings every aspect
of the core of your being,
every essence of who
you've always been
and who you will be,
all your belief systems,
all your sense of selves,
all your connection to others
sits in the soul.
All the experiences that
you've had in past lives
and in current lives.
All the lessons you've
learned and have not learned.
All those lessons that
you come back to repeat,
to understand, to expand
your awareness of,
and to live accordingly
are tucked into the soul.
So I'd like you
right now to imagine
as you inhale a beautiful
breath into the nose,
you're going to open up that
heart center of the soul
and make it very, very bright.
And as you exhale
out of your mouth,
you're going to release any
old, stagnant energy that
no longer serves
your highest good.
So together let's open up
that beautiful soul center.
So bring in that
beautiful golden light.
And inhale.
And hold it two, three,
four, and exhale.
And let it go.
Let it go.
All the old stuff,
just let it go,
bringing yourself back to
the center of your soul.
And again, and inhale
a beautiful sense
of divine light enriching you,
illuminating you, expanding
you.
Holding it two, three,
four, and exhale.
Out of your mouth.
Let it go.
I don't hear you.
Good, good, good.
And just one more time.
And inhale.
And feel that.
Be with that space, holding
it, two, three, four,
and exhale all the old.
Blow it out.
Let it go.
All that old, stagnant
energy falls from you,
goes down to Mother Earth so
she can recycle it to love.
And as you sit in
this beautiful space
with your soul connection
to Mother Earth
and also to the divine
light, become mindful
of that heart space.
And as you hear
my voice, I would
like you to go back
in time in your mind.
Go back to your childhood
to a very happy memory.
We all might have had
some negative experiences.
And that's fine.
We are aware of that.
But we just want to go right
now to a happy time as a child,
whether it's a
Christmas day, holidays,
a birthday, riding your bikes.
Something that made you
feel real, real good;
real, real, happy.
And as you do that, be mindful.
Be mindful of who's in
the picture with you,
what scenario is happening, and
how do you feel emotionally.
What's going on.
Good.
See it.
Be aware of it.
Be there.
Great.
And now bring yourself and your
mind five years to the future,
from that experience to
another moment in your life.
And I just want you to observe.
I don't want you to
emotionally get involved
in it, just like you're
observing a movie,
a television show.
Just see your life and
see, most importantly,
how you respond to people
that are close to you.
How do you respond to
family members, to friends.
And just in your mind, bring
yourself to a situation
where you have to interact
with these friends and family
members.
See what that's like.
How do you react?
How do they make you feel?
Just observing.
Not being caught up emotionally.
Just like doing a study.
And now bring your soul five
years more in advancement,
five years ahead to another
important moment in your life
where you had to interact.
Perhaps you had to make
a decision or choice that
changed your life,
and that's fine.
Once again, how did
your soul react?
What lessons do you think
your soul was learning?
What presented itself to you?
How did you receive it?
Observing it.
Good.
Take a deep breath.
And exhale.
Good.
One more time.
Now bring yourself up five
years more in the future,
five years more to an
important moment in your life.
Perhaps it was a
choice you made,
a career move, a
relationship, whatever
it is for you where your
soul was expressing itself.
Just become aware of
how you responded,
what situations you were in,
what was drawn to your soul.
What scenarios, what
experiences did your soul
draw to it in order
to understand,
to see things a little
bit differently.
Perhaps change your perspective.
Good.
And now take a deep breath
with that one, and exhale.
And bring yourself
to present day.
Bring yourself to present day,
to your life in present day.
And just see, observing, not
emotionally getting involved.
Just look around your
life and see the people
that are involved, see the
scenarios that are happening.
And as you look around, be
mindful of how you respond
to other people's thoughts,
to other people's actions.
How do you respond?
How does your soul respond?
Good.
And as you look at that,
I would like for you
in your mind to go from the
childhood to present day.
And just be mindful of
the reoccurring lessons
that play over and over again.
There may be a pattern that
you notice, which is just fine.
Just be mindful of the
pattern of your soul,
the various same lessons
of the soul you're still
trying to learn.
The ones that step
forward, that seem
to dominate your life
experience so far.
And as you see them, also
become aware what could you
do to learn the fullness of
that life experience now.
What can you do to learn
the fullness of that life
experience now?
Can you demonstrate forgiveness?
Perhaps patience?
Unconditional love?
Gratitude?
Understanding?
What can you give?
More observant?
Whatever it might
be, just see it.
Be aware of what you can apply
to that scenario in your life
to assist you in learning
the fullness of that lesson.
And take a deep
breath, and exhale.
And slowly come
back to your body.
Your feet on the floor.
Your legs, your bodies,
your backs in the chair,
your shoulders, your legs,
your head, your eyes.
Slowly open up your eyes.
Raise up your arms and
wiggle your fingers.
Back in the body, very good.
Open your eyes.
Look at the smiles.
Great, much brighter.
Yours are much brighter.
Very good.
I'd like to just share maybe
a little bit of some insights
that you had that you
didn't expect to have.
Anyone want to
share what lessons
they found that
they came to learn
or they're presently learning
that repeated themselves.
Anybody?
Yes.
>>AUDIENCE: I think
during that meditation,
I was reliving a
lot of frustration.
People that were very
controlling in my life.
And the emotion
that I had dealing
with that for most of my life.
And the word that came to mind
at the end was understanding.
>>VAN PRAAGH: Perfect.
So you repeated controlling
people in your life.
>>AUDIENCE: Yes.
>>VAN PRAAGH: And
could it be perhaps
that you wanted them to
understand who you really were
or to listen to your words,
that your words had value?
>>AUDIENCE: Yes
>>VAN PRAAGH: Is that
what it might be?
>>AUDIENCE: Yes.
>>VAN PRAAGH: To stand
up for yourself perhaps?
>>AUDIENCE: Yes, definitely.
>>VAN PRAAGH: Definitely that.
So that was one of
your soul's lessons
>>AUDIENCE: I was a doormat.
I was a doormat.
>>VAN PRAAGH: A lot
of us are, yeah.
So that's an important one.
>>AUDIENCE: So I understood--
>>VAN PRAAGH: What do you have
to do to make that better now?
>>AUDIENCE: Well, I
have made it better.
>>VAN PRAAGH: You said
understand, so you have.
>>AUDIENCE: Yes.
So I understand
why they treated me
the way that they did because of
the way that I treated myself.
>>VAN PRAAGH: Love that.
It's great.
And then they have no
other way to look at you.
If you don't treat
yourself-- You're
telling them how to treat you.
>>AUDIENCE: Exactly.
Exactly.
So I-- The understanding I think
is coming-- my understanding
of why they were the way they
were, why I was the way I was.
And it's very freeing.
>>VAN PRAAGH: It's very freeing.
Very good.
Excellent.
You've got it.
It's just a matter of observing.
And you don't need
me to do this.
You can do this on your
own now in meditation,
and it's important to
see the observation.
The first step in
healing is to be aware.
So you're aware of it.
Very good.
>>AUDIENCE: Thank you.
>>VAN PRAAGH: Very good.
Anybody else?
Someone over here perhaps?
You look like you had
something going on.
First time you've
done this, yes?
>>AUDIENCE: First time, yes.
>>VAN PRAAGH: First time
you kind of meditated.
It's a rough-- yeah.
OK.
Tell.
I'm excited.
Tells us because I
do this all the time.
So if someone's never
done it, I love that.
Tell us.
>>AUDIENCE: Mine was just
my journey growing up.
>>VAN PRAAGH: What
was a happy memory?
>>AUDIENCE: Well, my first
happy memory I was thinking of
was mom, or my dad and
my brother and I and all
of our hunting experiences,
and how it was just
such wonderful times
filled with love.
And following that was-- my next
thought was choosing a college
and going off to college.
And then going back to college
later for another career.
And just the path of
decision-making, growing up,
learning along the way.
>>VAN PRAAGH: I bet you're
the only person in your family
that-- well, I shouldn't say it.
But I bet you are the
leader in your family.
>>AUDIENCE: Yes.
>>VAN PRAAGH: I bet you are.
I just feel that you are.
>>AUDIENCE: Yes.
>>VAN PRAAGH: May I bring
through your father, who's
standing right behind you.
>>AUDIENCE: Sure.
>>VAN PRAAGH: OK.
And it's OK to cry.
And the reason why I say
that-- because I'll be crying--
and because it cleans,
it clears the soul.
It really, in a
way, honors them.
And we keep that in.
It's not healthy.
We got to let things out.
So I know there must've been
another John in the family.
So It'd be another John
with the name in the family.
Do you understand that?
>>AUDIENCE: Yes.
>>VAN PRAAGH: Would that
have been his or somebody
with that family name?
His father?
>>AUDIENCE: It would've
been his father-in-law.
>>VAN PRAAGH: Father-in-law.
OK, good.
So I get him very,
very strongly here.
And I get a mother as well.
So I'd say your mother's
on this side of you,
your father's on
this side of you.
And I need to tell
you your father--
I don't know if you
have tools of his.
But I know that he says to me
if you would mention to my son
that he owns my toolbox,
he has my tools,
he even has my
saw, that he would
know it's me speaking to him.
Do you understand that please?
>>AUDIENCE: Yes, I totally do.
>>VAN PRAAGH: And I know
that if I say that to you
from this gentleman, that
he would say he got it.
He got it.
He understands it.
I know that.
And you're his wife, are you?
His wife?
>>AUDIENCE: Yes.
>>VAN PRAAGH: He loves
you, loves you, loves you.
Would you mind standing as
well please, sweetheart?
>>AUDIENCE: Thank you.
>>VAN PRAAGH: Because I know
that you brought him here,
because his father and
mother is acknowledging
that you brought
your husband here.
And they're thanking
you immensely
because he needed to
know that they're alive.
He needed to know life
after death exists.
And we need to know that.
Do you also have a son?
>>AUDIENCE: I do.
>>VAN PRAAGH: You do.
Where is he right now?
>>AUDIENCE: Fort Collins.
>>VAN PRAAGH: And I'm very
aware there's an aunt also
that passed over on
your side of the family.
There's a lady
comes through that
says she's an aunt of yours.
So be aware of that.
Is your mother still
living on the earth?
Your mom?
Or has your mom passed over?
>>AUDIENCE: Two weeks ago.
>>VAN PRAAGH: Two weeks ago.
Can I bring her for you?
>>AUDIENCE: I would love it.
>>VAN PRAAGH: Thank you,
because I have here.
And I have a lady
who's tied to her.
And I would say it's
either her sister
or I'd say it's the
sister-in-law, because there's
something like an aunt feeling.
Would you understand
that for me please?
>>AUDIENCE: Yes.
>>VAN PRAAGH: Thank
you very much.
I know who I'm getting.
All of your family's coming.
Now we opened up
the whole curtain,
they're all popping in.
Popping in.
Now that we can do it.
They can do it.
And I'm talking about
April is very significant.
I don't know what April
is significant for.
I don't know if it's a
birthday or an anniversary.
April is significant
between one of you.
I'm not sure who
passed in April or--
>>AUDIENCE: A best friend
whose birthday was April 21.
>>VAN PRAAGH: And he
passed over, correct?
>>AUDIENCE: Yes, he did.
>>VAN PRAAGH: And they
want to say hello to you.
You did everything
you could for him.
I don't know who used
to build carpeting or do
some woodwork together?
>>AUDIENCE: My dad.
My dad.
>>VAN PRAAGH: Your dad.
And didn't he show you how
to do some woodworking.
>>AUDIENCE: Yeah,
a lot of things.
>>VAN PRAAGH: And
didn't he bring you
into either the garage or the
workbench and built something
with him?
Do you remember that?
>>AUDIENCE: Yes, he did.
>>VAN PRAAGH: When
you're a little boy.
But as I got older,
he's helping me
with projects outside the house.
>>AUDIENCE: Yes.
>>VAN PRAAGH: You
understand that?
And I know that you must
still have my measuring stick.
My measurer.
>>AUDIENCE: Yes, I do.
>>VAN PRAAGH: You understand
that, the measuring stick?
Is that how you call it?
>>AUDIENCE: Several.
>>VAN PRAAGH: I'm obviously
not a construction person.
But you know what
he's talking about.
I know that he would like to
have his initials on certain
of his tools, because he had
certain initials on there.
You understand that?
>>AUDIENCE: I've got a ruler
sitting on top of my box
that has all my
tools with his ruler
facing this way with
his initials on it.
>>VAN PRAAGH: There you go.
There you go.
I love that.
I love being in your garage.
I love being at a workbench.
I love that you go
there all the time.
I love, let's say,
it's the board.
That board thing with
those little pegs on it.
A peg board.
>>AUDIENCE: Yeah.
>>VAN PRAAGH: You
understand the peg board
I'm seeing right there?
>>AUDIENCE: That's it.
>>VAN PRAAGH: I
know you have hooks
on the peg board,
different things.
I'm very aware of that.
I'm very aware there's
also an extension
cord, which is up there.
It's like an extension cord,
like a long orange one.
Extension cord.
Does that make sense
to you, please?
>>AUDIENCE: Yes, it does.
>>VAN PRAAGH: Perfect.
So I know that the family
visits you there all the time.
I'm very, very aware
also there would've
been a pickup truck or
someone has a pickup truck.
Do you have pickup
truck, please?
>>AUDIENCE: Yes.
>>VAN PRAAGH: In that garage,
sometimes you park it.
And you park there or in
the driveway, correct?
>>AUDIENCE: Yes, yes.
>>VAN PRAAGH: Good.
I like that.
Your dad's telling
me about that, OK?
Because your dad said I got to
tell him about manly things.
Because he's very manly.
And I know that your-- god.
I know that your
mother goes back--
did she pass before
your father, your mom?
>>AUDIENCE: No, my
dad passed first.
>>VAN PRAAGH: But very close?
Was it timed two years
within each other?
>>AUDIENCE: Yeah.
>>VAN PRAAGH: It feels
very, very close.
I almost got to tell
you, mother said to me
she almost went before him.
So I got to tell you
that I think she gives me
this-- either she was ill, she
was in a hospital before him,
and there was almost--
she almost went.
So if you remember that.
>>AUDIENCE: When
I was born, they
said she would
pass from pneumonia
and that I would survive.
>>VAN PRAAGH: I'm
not sure that's it.
>>AUDIENCE: OK.
>>VAN PRAAGH: But I
know that she gives me
that feeling I
thought in my mind.
I know-- OK, stop.
Your father's getting
too enthusiastic now.
Trying to find a suit for him.
They had to try to
find a suit for him.
They had to try to find a
suit for him for his coffin.
You had try to find some kind
of a suit for him to wear.
You understand that?
>>AUDIENCE: Yes.
>>VAN PRAAGH: And
you didn't have one.
And it was hard to
find one to put on.
You understand?
>>AUDIENCE: He wasn't
much of wearing suits.
>>VAN PRAAGH: Right.
So it was like, where are
we going to find this?
Because he's not used to this.
>>AUDIENCE: Wow.
>>VAN PRAAGH: He was like, oh
my god, this sort of thing.
It was all very nice, but
your father could care less.
You know that.
Your father could care less.
>>AUDIENCE: Yeah.
>>VAN PRAAGH: I got
to tell you, is there
an Anne somewhere
in your family?
Anne.
>>AUDIENCE: It's a middle
name of most of my sisters.
>>VAN PRAAGH: Your sisters.
Are there two sisters
that you have or three?
>>AUDIENCE: Three.
>>VAN PRAAGH: I want to give
love to them from your mother,
OK?
I want to talk about your
mother in the hospital
before she passes over.
You understand she was in a
hospital before she passes?
>>AUDIENCE: Yes.
>>VAN PRAAGH: Good.
And did she pass away at home?
>>AUDIENCE: Yes.
>>VAN PRAAGH: And
didn't she make
sure that she came
back home to pass?
>>AUDIENCE: Yes.
>>VAN PRAAGH: And I know
that your mother when
she comes close
to me, she either
has trouble walking or just
trouble getting around.
She can't get around very well.
I know your mother has a lot
of dignity when she comes in,
when she's here.
She comes with dignity.
She wears a beautiful dress.
She's all dressed
up to the nines.
Please don't take
this the wrong way,
but she's better
dressed than you are.
>>AUDIENCE: Yeah, yeah.
Yes.
>>VAN PRAAGH:
Because she's a doll.
She's a real doll,
how she dresses up.
>>AUDIENCE: She would
point that out, too.
>>VAN PRAAGH: She would.
And she still is from
beyond the grave.
Some things never change.
But I know that you
have jewelry of mine,
or the girls split
up my jewelery.
My daughters split
They split up the rings.
I know everyone has a ring.
You have a ring on you, good.
I know that each one has a ring.
I know that her and your
dad are meeting at a dance.
They're going to dance.
They met at a dance.
You understand that?
>>AUDIENCE: Yes.
>>VAN PRAAGH: And that's
what they're talking about.
They've got each-- a dance.
OK, good.
I want you to know you
did everything you could.
Your mother was ready to go.
She was ready to pass away.
Now, someone was not able
to get there in time.
Who was that?
>>AUDIENCE: My sister.
>>VAN PRAAGH: Would you
please let her know it's OK?
That she has to let
that one go, release it.
Please release it, all right?
Good, good, good.
I know that.
I know that your dad, you
still-- I always get caps.
For some reason get caps.
So I know you have
your father's cap.
>>AUDIENCE: I do.
>>VAN PRAAGH: Yeah.
I know you have
that cap from him.
Maybe it's a hunting cap.
Maybe it's this sort of thing.
And I know I went to a lodge.
We like a lodge.
Some kind of a lodge.
I want to tell you that one
more thing-- I want, again,
repeat-- I want to thank
you for bringing him here.
And I want you to know
your mother's fine.
You helped her with
a great send off.
And I got to tell you she--
she was buried, wasn't she?
>>AUDIENCE: Her ashes.
>>VAN PRAAGH: Her
ashes were buried.
OK.
But I like the place
that you picked.
I've got to say that to you.
That's very important,
because of the disagreeing.
So I'll leave with that.
OK?
>>AUDIENCE: Thank you.
>>VAN PRAAGH: God bless you.
>>VAN PRAAGH: You're welcome.
I'm being drawn over
here to a woman.
It feels like a
mother figure to me,
so I'm going to go over here.
I don't know if my
70s when I pass over.
I feel like I'm going
to go to you, OK?
So would you mind standing?
Your name, please?
>>AUDIENCE: Leanne.
>>VAN PRAAGH: Leanne.
Hi, Leanne.
Now, would this be
mother, mother-in-law?
>>AUDIENCE: Mother-in-law.
>>VAN PRAAGH: Mother-in-law.
Would you-- You're still
married to the husband, correct?
>>AUDIENCE: Yeah, her son.
>>VAN PRAAGH: Her son?
>>AUDIENCE: Yes.
>>VAN PRAAGH: Great.
I want to ask you,
were you-- go on--
and there's also a gentleman
in the spirit world as well.
So I'm not sure if that's
your father-in-law,
but there's a man
over there with her.
Would you know about that?
>>AUDIENCE: Yes.
>>VAN PRAAGH: And I want to
talk about moving to a house,
getting a house.
So I've got moving
to a different house
or changing houses.
Would you understand
that at all, please?
>>AUDIENCE: Yes, yes.
>>VAN PRAAGH: OK.
Would you just recently did that
or was there talk about that?
This lady's going on about
moving a house around.
>>AUDIENCE: Yeah,
there was a move.
Her husband moved
into a new house, yes.
>>VAN PRAAGH: OK.
Great, great, great.
Who has two dogs in the family?
>>AUDIENCE: My mother.
>>VAN PRAAGH: Your
mother has two dogs.
Your mother's still
living, right?
>>AUDIENCE: Yes.
>>VAN PRAAGH: OK, great.
And is there a man that's
not with her anymore?
>>AUDIENCE: Her father.
>>VAN PRAAGH: Her father.
Did he live with her at one
point or did she live with him?
>>AUDIENCE: Yes,
she lived with him.
And me, I also lived with him.
>>VAN PRAAGH: And you.
Because I'm getting
this gentleman here.
And I knew that he wasn't
associated with that lady,
but I'm still
around that family.
And when he lived
with-- so thank you.
Come on.
Yes, I got it.
She just wants you to tell
her husband she's alive
and she's fine.
So I have your grandfather
in this side of you.
I still-- He's talking about
your mother being at a home,
being at home.
I don't know if you've been
taking good care of her,
and you've had to take care of
her more lately than last year.
It feels as if she's needing
more attention, correct?
>>AUDIENCE: Yeah,
she's been sick.
>>VAN PRAAGH: And would you
know about going to a doctor's
or having to make some
appointments for her?
>>AUDIENCE: Yes,
she's been going
to lots of doctor appointments.
>>VAN PRAAGH: OK.
And I need to get
her heart checked.
So I need to do that.
Are you aware of that?
>>AUDIENCE: No.
>>VAN PRAAGH: OK.
So the gentleman here is talking
about let her heart be checked.
So I'm going to go
with what I'm hearing.
I'm not a doctor, but I got
to go with what I'm hearing.
Heart checked.
I also want to talk
about steps in the house.
Steps in the house.
>>AUDIENCE: Yes.
>>VAN PRAAGH: Is there a second
floor going steps up there?
>>AUDIENCE: She was in a
house with lots of stairs,
and she can't use
them very well.
>>VAN PRAAGH: Hate the stairs.
He said do not like the stairs.
Do not like the stairs.
Don't like them at all.
OK?
And I need to get her out
of that place with stairs.
Don't want her falling
down on the stairs.
You heard it here first.
He's very concerned about her.
I think that he and your mom
had a very strong relationship.
>>AUDIENCE: Yes.
>>VAN PRAAGH: I think
they were just connected.
The apple in his eye.
And I got to tell you that.
I think when I'm getting a
memory from this man playing
the piano when he's younger.
Whethere it was a
piano being played.
It's an upright piano
and I'm playing that.
So I would ask you to please
to ask your mom about memories
of a piano and if
they'd sit together
on Saturday nights having
piano time, playing music.
>>AUDIENCE: OK.
>>VAN PRAAGH: OK?
I don't want you to
worry about things.
Don't want you to
And the message really
for your mother to go
take care of her health, please.
>>AUDIENCE: OK.
>>VAN PRAAGH: I'll
leave you with that.
Thank you.
>>AUDIENCE: All right.
[APPLAUSE]
>>VAN PRAAGH: I want to
talk about a gentleman that
comes to see me here.
I'm feeling this man is a father
figure, it feels like to me.
I got to tell you that I feel
like this man would have known
either of a coin collection
of some kind or a stamp
collection?
>>AUDIENCE: Yes.
>>VAN PRAAGH: Yes, your dad?
Your grandfather?
And do you currently
have that collection?
>>AUDIENCE: I do.
>>VAN PRAAGH: OK, good.
Can I come to you, please?
And what is your name?
>>AUDIENCE: Mary.
>>VAN PRAAGH: Mary.
Mary, and there's a lady here.
There's a bunch of people
coming in here left and right.
And would this have been your
mother's side of the family,
please, or your dad's side?
>>AUDIENCE: Yeah,
my mother's side.
>>VAN PRAAGH: OK.
Your mom's still living
on the earth here?
He's talking about
her living down here.
Great.
And I want you to have a
memory-- he's bringing back
memories of driving in a car.
Driving in a car.
So you would have known
him in the lifetime.
Is that right?
And would you know of any
connection toward the Florida
area, please?
>>AUDIENCE: Yeah.
Yeah.
Vacationed a lot down there.
>>VAN PRAAGH: Yes.
And would you have known about
going on a little vacation
or going to Florida
with your grandfather
or with a family
going down there?
>>AUDIENCE: Yes.
>>VAN PRAAGH: Great.
Because the memories that
he comes back with here,
and he said most--
what did you say?
The lessons that we all
learned, and he said it's
a family lesson.
And he said, some
turned out great.
Some didn't.
I what he's going on about.
>>AUDIENCE: Yeah, yeah.
He's funny.
>>VAN PRAAGH: He's really funny.
Good sense of humor.
He's really talking to me
about family being separated.
>>AUDIENCE: Yes.
>>VAN PRAAGH: They're
all separated.
They're some are over
here, some are over there,
some are over there.
And he's really
sorry about that.
He tried to doing
the best he could
with keeping everybody
together, OK?
I also get a
grandmother with him.
So his wife must
be there because I
feel like I want to come in
here with a serving cup of tea,
and dinners, a dinnerware,
and a beautiful lace apron,
and all of her dinner stuff.
And that's very
important to this lady.
It's very important that
what you appear to be,
what your image is.
And this is what
she's from, about.
And I know that your grandfather
keeps on brushing her hair,
brushing her hair.
I got to tell you,
before he passes away,
my mind isn't mine.
>>AUDIENCE: Yeah.
>>VAN PRAAGH: So
I don't know if I
lost my mind, like
I was in a coma.
I feel like I lost my mind.
I'm not myself.
And I know that things had to
be done for me, like papers
had to be signed in his
honor, like documents,
that sort of thing.
Making up his mind for
him, this sort of a thing.
>>AUDIENCE: Yes.
>>VAN PRAAGH: You
understand that?
>>AUDIENCE: Yeah.
>>VAN PRAAGH: So your mother
has her mother's dishes.
She has all her things.
>>AUDIENCE: She does.
She does.
>>VAN PRAAGH: She
has a candle set.
Candle set.
>>AUDIENCE: Everything.
>>VAN PRAAGH: The holidays
are very important to her.
>>AUDIENCE: Yes.
>>VAN PRAAGH: It's
really important
that someone has her sweater.
I know that she either
played cards every week,
or she meets her
friends once a week.
>>AUDIENCE: They loved
to play cards, yeah.
>>VAN PRAAGH: Because I'm being
shown that, playing cards.
>>AUDIENCE: Yeah.
>>VAN PRAAGH: Playing
cards once a week.
>>AUDIENCE: We all played
cards together, yeah.
>>VAN PRAAGH: I love that.
And they all love
that as well, OK?
They all love that as well.
I know that in the family,
if I go back in time,
I'm very aware that there
was a woman or women who,
one day, they now play cards.
But in those days, they
might have got together
sewing things.
>>AUDIENCE: Yeah, yeah.
>>VAN PRAAGH: It was
like a sewing club.
You know, sewing dresses
and sewing things, OK?
I know there's a Jack.
So I know the name
Jack is significant.
>>AUDIENCE: Yup, yup.
>>VAN PRAAGH: So
you understand that.
And I'm very, very
aware there's a man
who'd be in the spirit
world who would've
smoked a pipe when
he was living here.
>>AUDIENCE: Yes, yes.
>>VAN PRAAGH: OK?
So very, very aware of
that, that that pipe would
be significant to you and
that you'd remember that.
I'm also very, very
impressed with bowling.
>>AUDIENCE: Yeah,
my grandparents
bowled all the time.
>>VAN PRAAGH: I'm bowling.
Stuff like that.
>>AUDIENCE: They
were amazing bowlers.
>>VAN PRAAGH: If I look
at my form, by the way,
my form isn't bad here.
As they giving me, I'm going,
like, right down the aisle.
So I know there
would be trophies.
I know there would be
acknowledgements of that.
>>AUDIENCE: Oh yeah.
Yeah.
>>VAN PRAAGH: I know
they're very proud of that
and that you remember this.
This was very, very significant.
And they said really what
your soul lesson is, all of us
share the same one, which
is unconditional love.
OK, interesting.
And loving people for
who they are differently.
So the diversification of
your family, they said.
And even the ones that are
not together right now,
who are separated, you have
to find the love for them.
They don't want
you to stay-- They
don't want you to stay mad.
They don't want you to say,
they should have done that.
They should have done that.
They could've done that.
Why did they treat mom this way?
You're having trouble.
>>AUDIENCE: Yeah.
>>VAN PRAAGH: You
don't want to do that.
Why don't you want to do that?
Because you don't know
what their backgrounds are.
You don't know if they don't
love themselves enough so they
could have done something else.
You don't know
how much they feel
they didn't get enough
love from their family,
so they couldn't
act a certain way.
We don't know
people's backstories.
Everybody has a backstory.
So it's up to you.
And they're coming
back to remind you
of your family-- soul
family group lesson.
>>AUDIENCE: Well, there's
generational anger--
>>VAN PRAAGH: There's
generational anger.
>>AUDIENCE: that's
getting pushed on.
>>VAN PRAAGH: I know.
>>AUDIENCE: So it's
not being held.
>>VAN PRAAGH: Let's resolve it.
>>AUDIENCE: Not being held.
>>VAN PRAAGH: So it's up to you
to heal it if you could, right?
So it doesn't repeat itself time
after time after time again.
>>AUDIENCE: I'm working on it.
I really am.
>>VAN PRAAGH: I know.
So a lot of it's
repetitive from the old.
So you want to bring it into
the new, into the light.
Yes?
You wan to bring it to-- I
would say take the high road.
Less traffic.
>>AUDIENCE: OK.
>>VAN PRAAGH: Listen.
You can never
control other people.
control situations. .
You can control how
you respond to things.
So if you can respond to
things in a loving way,
then you're living in
alignment and integration
with soul's lesson.
And that's the most important
thing from your family today.
OK?
>>AUDIENCE: Thank you.
>>VAN PRAAGH: I'll
leave you with that.
Thank you.
>>AUDIENCE: Thank you.
>>VAN PRAAGH: Well, I want to
thank you all very, very much
for being here today.
I hope you got a lot out of this
and realize that you are just
a soul having a human
experience, not the other way
around.
And that really, it's
up to you to make
a difference every
moment of your path.
You never know who's going
to walk upon your path
and what difference
you're going to make.
Because I got to tell you,
there are no accidents.
There are no coincidences.
Coincidence is God's way
of remaining anonymous.
And to be true to
your soul's self,
and to really learn those
lessons, love is the only way.
So be an influence--
a positive influence
with love to every
single person you meet.
OK?
And with that, I send you
my love and my appreciation.
Thank you very much
for being here.
Thank you.
[APPLAUSE]